# Team Sync 2021


## 2021 - 01 - 27

### Erik Sundell

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- Min put in a lot of effort to help me review PRs and it made me very happy!
- Yuvi pinged me about technical inspiration (database class where each user has a dedicated database available). It is inspiring, I'm excited about the possibilities that open up in educational settings by removing various technical barriers to get started without getting stuck in hardware setup / software installation / licenses etc.
 
#### Updates from last two weeks ✔ 
- I've worked on z2jh PRs towards 1.0.0, where the following updates can be relevant to know about:
    - [hub.extraFiles / singleuser.extraFiles](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/2006)
      This feature can help 2i2c deployments by offloading you off the logic to do define volumes/volumeMounts and helping YAML/JSON/TOML file to be mounted be configured from multiple helm configuration files (config.yaml / secret.yaml). It is also possible to have standalone files but then you must use --set-file during `helm upgrade` which is a bit messier.
    - [seed secrets](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1993) + [followup fix](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/2016)
      This feature makes us no longer need to set or pass proxy.secretToken, hub.cookieSecret, or auth.state.cryptoKey - they will be automatically generated if not explicitly set.

#### What I'm up to next ⬜
- Pushing onwards towards z2jh 1.0.0
- Write a paper with Ariel Rokem for PEARC about neurohackademy

#### Links to items for discussion 💬
- I'd love help to get the [extraFiles](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/2006) PR towards merge.
    - Thank you Chris and Yuvi for your previous review!! Your previous review points have been addressed now!
- I'd also appreciate a of the seed secrets [followup fix](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/2016).
- I'm generally curious about developing a solution to providing a authentication proxy for JupyterHub's services, communicating with JupyterHub as an identity provider and relying on JupyterHub group membership something to decide if the user should be granted network access to the service - such as /services/docs for example. I'm not sure yet how to go about it, but I think it would be one of those somewhat general purpose tools and those motivate me a lot to work on!

### Yuvi

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- To Georgiana for:
    - Taking full responsibility for working with Aaron Culich on the Mills hub
    - Writing full fledged health checks for hubs, so we have more confidence that they actually work
    - Fixing bugs with the UToronto hub as they get reported
- To chris, georgiana and ryan for helping run intterviews
- To chris for organizing everything so we don't all drown

### Chris Holdgraf

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- Thanks to Yuvi for giving Georgiana so much guidance on the Toronto hub!
 
#### Updates from last two weeks ✔ 
- Dealing with 100% parenting + 100% working (fun!)
- Working on moving forward some more contracts for 2i2c (see https://github.com/2i2c-org/leads/projects/1)
- Refactoring some of our team process / communication / workflow
- Setting up hiring practices that we can use for the OSIE hire + future ones!

#### What I'm up to next ⬜
- Figuring out our budget situation for the next 2 years
- Finding a way to spend my Jupyter Book grant!
- Thinking more about prices + features + products strategy
- Hiring somebody!


## 2021-01-05

### Erik

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- Thank you everyone for connecting and establishing collaborations between 2i2c and so many amazing groups of people! I'm excited about 2i2c helping them!
- Thanks Yuvi for addressing the challenge of standardizing [Grafana Dashboards for z2jh deployments](https://discourse.jupyter.org/t/announce-grafana-dashboards-for-jupyterhub-on-kubernetes/7320)!
- I'm very thankful for @manics work, most recently for creating and working with me on the [jupyterhub/action-k3s-helm](https://github.com/jupyterhub/action-k3s-helm) GitHub action we now reuse for four or more JupyterHub projects.

#### Updates from last two weeks ✔
- I've worked generally motivated by making JupyterHub repositories maintenance more sustainable by reducing complexity, improving CI, improving docs, and pushing for a 1.0.0 release of z2jh.

#### What I'm up to next ⬜
- Z2JH 0.11.0 release.
- Z2JH 1.0.0 features relying on Helm 3 to reduce complexity such as needing to manage proxy.secretToken etc.

#### Links to items for discussion 💬
- Merging [this Z2JH PR](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/pull/1943) is what remains for the 0.11.0 release. I have looked for help to review it but the JupyterHub team membars are generally low on capacity. I'm not happy about either of the options I see: to wait, to self merge, or to repeat requests for help.

  Any ideas on how to manage this general situation and this specific PR is greatly appreciated. In general I currently wish for the JupyterHub team to compromise a bit on review stringency during times when reviewer's availability are low. It would be nice to have some guidelines.
- Meta discussion: Did I use this team-sync somewhat as intended? Any suggestions for changes in any form?

### Geo

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- Many thanks to Yuvi for being a great mentor and for all the time and effort put in getting me familiar with the 2i2c projects and technology.
- Thanks for Chris' great work in growing 2i2c and for the great oboarding process created.

#### Updates from last two weeks ✔
- These past weeks, I spent most of the time working on getting familiar with the 2i2c pilot-hubs, fixing a couple of issues and reviewing a few PRs as part of the process.

#### What I'm up to next ⬜
- Supporting Yuvi in getting the UToronto hub ready for the winter semester.
- Developing tests to check and ensure the pilot-hubs' health.

### Chris

#### Thanks I'd like to give 🙌
- Thanks to Erik and Geo for joining the first team (a)sync :-)

#### Updates from last two weeks ✔
- We've just submitted two NSF sub-awards, one for a satellite mission at Texas Tech (well, this one was a pre-award), and another for a collaboration with UW and others around collaborative cloud science!
- This has also involved a lot of discussion with ICSI about how to manage these collaborations etc.
- I have eaten a lot of 🧀 and drank a lot of 🍷 with my French family.

#### What I'm up to next ⬜
- Wrapping up the next few collaboration proposals
- Starting the hiring process for the open OSIE position
- Updating our team compass docs with things we've learned after the last few proposals we've written
- More about hub pricing and "products" that we offer

#### Links to items for discussion 💬
- Just a general one - check out the team compass! https://2i2c.org/team-compass and please don't hesitate to contribute anything to this that you think would be useful.
